# Q42

## What is Q42?

Q42 is a digital agency that builds products to make life better, smarter, easier and more fun. They made products for HEMA, Rijksmuseum, Philips Hue, Wie is de Mol, and Hack the Planet. Q-DNA means accessibility, fighting for the end user and innovation.

## Accessibility

At Q42 they do REAL accessibility tests with real people. What if you can not hear, see, move or understand like most people? How do you help them? This is very important to them.

## Sense Math

One of the projects Q42 did was helping blind students "read" mathematical graphs. Normally students would need a couple of minutes to understand what the graph would look like let alone know what to do with it. But with the technology Q used, they would only need a couple of seconds (after learning how it works of course). They build an app where the students could hear by tone how the line "moves" over the graph and with beeps where lines would cross each other. They also thought of a different sound when the line would go below 0.

## Appt.org

Appt.org is a website that tries to empower developers to make more accessible websites. They teach about the use of accessibility features on mobile phones, code documentation for iOS, Android and other platforms and official guidelines.

## Oculi Mundi

Oculi Mundi means the Eyes of the World. Oculi Mundi is a digital heritage destination: the home of The Sunderland Collection of world maps, celestial maps, atlases, globes and books of knowledge. The Collection was built out of a personal passion for travel, history, and the imagination. The challenge with this website was to make it accessible and cool at the same time. The trick was to flatten it and then translate it.

## Reflection

I was really surprised by this visit. A little bit because I realized we know a lot already and that it's still very unusual that it actually should be standard that your website is accessible for everyone. I really love companies who try to make the world a better place and I would love to be a part of that. I was actually so impressed by their work that and their way of working that I really wanted to do my internship here. So I talked with Marvin and some other people who worked there and a couple days later I actually wrote them if I could come over to talk about the possibilities. I really think I would learn a lot here and see myself really fitting in. Fingers crossed!
